OSDOCS-9171#Add SMB CIFS CSI Driver Operator (#75920)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-smb-cifs-create-pv.adoc

= Creating PVs/PVCs with SMB shares

To create a persistent volume (PV) and persistent volume claim (PVC) to consume Server Message Block protocol (SMB) shares:

.Prerequisites
* Access to the {product-title} web console.
* {FeatureName} CSI Driver Operator and driver installed.
* Storage class for CIFS/SMB already created (see _Creating a storage class for CIFS/SMB_).

.Procedure

. Create a PV:
+
Run the following command with the following example YAML file:
+
[source,cli]
----
oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>
----
<1> The name of the PV YAML file.
+
.Example PV YAML file
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  annotations:
    pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by: smb.csi.k8s.io
  name: <pv-name> <1>
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
  storageClassName: <sc-name> <2>
  mountOptions:
    - dir_mode=0777
    - file_mode=0777
  csi:
    driver: smb.csi.k8s.io
    volumeHandle: smb-server.default.svc.cluster.local/share## <3>
    volumeAttributes:
      source: //<hostname>/<shares> <4>
    nodeStageSecretRef:
      name: <secret-name> <5>

>       namespace: default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      namespace: <secret-namespace> <6>
```
Maybe better, the namespace also could be not the default ns.

Author: Done.

<3> The name of the PV from the first step.
<4> The name of the CIFS/SMB storage class that you created earlier (see _Prerequisites_).

.. Ensure that the PVC was created and is in the "Bound" status by running the following command:
+
[source, cli]
----
oc describe pvc <pvc-name> <1>
----
<1> The name of the PVC name that you created in the preceding step.
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:          pvc-test
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  smb
Status:        Bound <1>
...
----
<1> PVC is in Bound status.

. Create a deployment on Linux by running the following command with following example YAML file:
+
[source, cli]
----
oc create -f <deployment-file-name>.yaml <1>
----
<1> The name of the deployment YAML file.
+
.Example deployment YAML file
+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
  name: <deployment-name> <1>
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
      name: <deployment-name> <1>
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
        - name: <deployment-name> <1>

>           image: mcr.microsoft.com/oss/nginx/nginx:1.19.5

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-smb-cifs.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="persistent-storage-csi-smb-cifs-create-pv_{context}"]
= Creating PVs/PVCs with SMB shares

To create a persistent volume (PV) and persistent volume claim (PVC) to consume Server Message Block protocol (SMB) shares:

.Prerequisites
* Access to the {product-title} web console.
* {FeatureName} CSI Driver Operator and driver installed.
* Storage class for CIFS/SMB already created (see _Creating a storage class for CIFS/SMB_).

.Procedure

> . Create a PV:
> +
> Run the following command with the following example YAML file:

Reviewer 2: I personally feel it reads a bit weird to have two sentences like this ending with a colon in one step, and also since the command has a user replaced value, I feel like you don't have to mention "example". I'd suggest the following rewording:
```suggestion
. Create a PV by running the following command:
```
I'm not sure whether this maintains the technical accuracy of telling users to use the sample information below, though.

+

> [source,cli]

Reviewer 2: Per the [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#source-tags-for-terminal-commands-and-output) I think the source type should be terminal:
```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

----

> oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>

Reviewer 2: Also per [the guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference), I think user replaced values should have underscores in between words:
```suggestion
oc create -f <pv_file_name>.yaml <1>
```

> oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>

Reviewer 2: This command is missing the $ prompt:
```suggestion
$ oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>
```

----
<1> The name of the PV YAML file.
+
.Example PV YAML file
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  annotations:
    pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by: smb.csi.k8s.io
  name: <pv-name> <1>
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
  storageClassName: <sc-name> <2>
  mountOptions:
    - dir_mode=0777
    - file_mode=0777
  csi:
    driver: smb.csi.k8s.io

>     volumeHandle: smb-server.default.svc.cluster.local/share## <3>

Reviewer 2: Just an FYI that I believe the second # is not showing up in the rendered output, I believe it's related to how the # character is used before callouts to ensure that the formatting after the callout still has correct coloring. I think there's some sort of escape character you could put in here to make sure that doesn't happen, maybe a `/`?

>   name: <pv-name> <1>
> spec:
>   capacity:
>     storage: 100Gi
>   accessModes:
>     - ReadWriteMany
>   persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
>   storageClassName: <sc-name> <2>
>   mountOptions:
>     - dir_mode=0777
>     - file_mode=0777
>   csi:
>     driver: smb.csi.k8s.io
>     volumeHandle: smb-server.default.svc.cluster.local/share## <3>
>     volumeAttributes:
>       source: //<hostname>/<shares> <4>
>     nodeStageSecretRef:
>       name: <secret-name> <5>

Reviewer 2: Same comment about using underscores:
```suggestion
  name: <pv_name> <1>
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
  storageClassName: <sc_name> <2>
  mountOptions:
    - dir_mode=0777
    - file_mode=0777
  csi:
    driver: smb.csi.k8s.io
    volumeHandle: smb-server.default.svc.cluster.local/share## <3>
    volumeAttributes:
      source: //<hostname>/<shares> <4>
    nodeStageSecretRef:
      name: <secret_name> <5>
```

      namespace: <namespace> <6>
----
<1> The name of the PV.
<2> The name of the CIFS/SMB storage class that you created earlier (see _Prerequisites_).

> <3> `volumeHandle` format: {smb-server-address}#{sub-dir-name}#{share-name}. Ensure that this value is unique for every share in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: I feel like even if the format does not exactly contain text you'd find in a file, it maybe should be put in backticks since it kind of represents text that would end up in the YAML. What do you think?
```suggestion
<3> `volumeHandle` format: `{smb-server-address}#{sub-dir-name}#{share-name}`. Ensure that this value is unique for every share in the cluster.
```

> <4> The Samba server must be installed somewhere and reachable from the cluster with <hostname> being the hostname for the Samba server and <shares> the path the server is configured to have among the exported shares.

Reviewer 2: I think these values should have backticks since they directly reference what's in the YAML:
```suggestion
<4> The Samba server must be installed somewhere and reachable from the cluster with `<hostname>` being the hostname for the Samba server and `<shares>` the path the server is configured to have among the exported shares.
```

<5> The name of the Secret, which is referenced in the storage class (see _Prerequisites_).
<6> The applicable namespace.

. Create a PVC:

.. Create a PVC by running the following command with the following example YAML file:
+

> [source, cli]

Reviewer 2: Same comment about terminal:
```suggestion
[source, terminal]
```

I see `cli` used in other commands in this PR, so rather than me repeating this feedback, please just go through the PR to make sure all of them say `terminal` instead. Thanks!

----

> oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>

Reviewer 2: Same comment about $:
```suggestion
$ oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>
```

Please also go through the commands to make sure they all have $ in front of them

> oc create -f <pv-file-name>.yaml <1>

Reviewer 2: Same comment about underscores in between the words of user replaced values:
```suggestion
oc create -f <pv_file_name>.yaml <1>
```

Please also go through all the values in the PR to ensure they have underscores

----
<1> The name of the PVC YAML file.
+
.Example PVC YAML file
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: <pvc-name> <1>
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: <storage-amount> <2>
  volumeName: <pv-name> <3>
  storageClassName: <sc-name> <4>
----
<1> The name of the PVC.
<2> Storage request amount.
<3> The name of the PV from the first step.
<4> The name of the CIFS/SMB storage class that you created earlier (see _Prerequisites_).

.. Ensure that the PVC was created and is in the "Bound" status by running the following command:
+
[source, cli]
----
oc describe pvc <pvc-name> <1>
----
<1> The name of the PVC name that you created in the preceding step.
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:          pvc-test
Namespace:     default
StorageClass:  smb
Status:        Bound <1>
...
----
<1> PVC is in Bound status.

> . Create a deployment on Linux by running the following command with following example YAML file:

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence is missing an article here:
```suggestion
. Create a deployment on Linux by running the following command with the following example YAML file:
```

+
[source, cli]
----
oc create -f <deployment-file-name>.yaml <1>
----
<1> The name of the deployment YAML file.
+
.Example deployment YAML file
+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: nginx
  name: <deployment-name> <1>
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
      name: <deployment-name> <1>
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        "kubernetes.io/os": linux
      containers:
        - name: <deployment-name> <1>
          image: quay.io/centos/centos:stream8
          command:
            - "/bin/bash"
            - "-c"
            - set -euo pipefail; while true; do echo $(date) >> <mount-path>/outfile; sleep 1; done <2>
          volumeMounts:
            - name: <vol-mount-name> <3>
              mountPath: <mount-path> <2>
              readOnly: false
      volumes:
        - name: <vol-mount-name> <3>
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: <pvc-name> <4>
  strategy:
    rollingUpdate:
      maxSurge: 0
      maxUnavailable: 1
    type: RollingUpdate
----
<1> The name of the deployment.

> <2> The volume mount path.

Reviewer 2: Nit - since this callout describes a value that's both on its own and in the middle of a sort of command, perhaps you can reword to add "specify"? That way this label avoids potentially describing that long command as the mount path:
```suggestion
<2> Specify the volume mount path.
```

Up to you though

<3> The name of the volume mount.
<4> The name of the PVC created in the preceding step.

. Check the setup by running the `df -h` command in the container:
+
[source, cli]
----
oc exec -it <pod-name> -- df -h <1>
----
<1> The name of the pod.
+
.Example output
+
[source, terminal]
----
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
...
/dev/sda1              97G   21G   77G  22% /etc/hosts
//20.43.191.64/share   97G   21G   77G  22% /mnt/smb
...
----
+

> In this example, there is a _/mnt/smb_ directory mounted as a Common Internet File System (CIFS) filesystem.

Reviewer 2: Since this is a filepath, do you think this should be in backticks instead? I think the [docs guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference) count paths as stuff that should have backticks
```suggestion
In this example, there is a `/mnt/smb` directory mounted as a Common Internet File System (CIFS) filesystem.
```
